Codeless API and Database Automation Framework

Description

This Rest Assured Automation Framework is a comprehensive solution designed for efficient and user-friendly testing of both APIs and databases with minimal coding. Built using Rest Assured, Java, TestNG, MySQL Connector, Cucumber, Maven, and enhanced with Maven Cucumber Reporting, this framework is equipped to handle a wide range of API and database testing scenarios.

Key Features

Codeless Test Case Creation: Directly write test cases in feature files for both API and database tests. Manage API paths, endpoints, and database queries centrally in YAML files, reducing the need for extensive coding.

Reusable Step Definitions: Use broadly applicable step definitions covering a variety of scenarios for both APIs and databases, promoting reusability and minimizing script duplication.

Extensive Request, Response, and Database Interaction Handling: Features include setting headers, authentication methods, request bodies, query and path parameters, executing SQL queries, transaction management, and data validations.

Dynamic Endpoint and Query Resolution: Seamlessly constructs endpoints and queries from YAML configuration, facilitating flexible test setups.

Rich Validation Options: Comprehensive validations for API responses and database query results, including status, content, headers, response time, and data integrity checks.

Customizable and Scalable: Adapt easily to different testing environments and scale to accommodate large suites of API and database tests.

Detailed Reporting: Integration with Maven Cucumber Reporting for insightful and detailed test reports on both API and database tests.

Getting Started

Cloning the Repository: Clone the repository from GitHub:

git clone https://github.com/roshangit23/ReadyTestAPI.git

This will download the complete framework to your local machine.

Running a Test Suite:

Navigate to the Project Directory: Change to the project directory in your terminal or command prompt.

Run Tests with Maven: Run the command 'mvn test verify' (verify is used for generating reports) in the project's root directory, or directly execute the TestRunner class from your IDE.

View Reports: Post execution, find detailed test reports in the target directory, generated by Maven Cucumber Reporting.

Writing and Managing Tests:

Feature Files: Write test cases for both API and database tests in feature files located in src/test/resources/features, using Gherkin syntax.

YAML Configuration: Manage API paths, endpoints, and database queries in the apiPaths.yaml and databaseQueries.yaml.

Step Definitions: Utilize existing step definitions in ApiStepDefinitions.java and DatabaseStepDefinitions.java for various API and database interactions. Extend the framework by adding new step definitions for unique scenarios.

Conclusion

This framework offers a streamlined approach to both API and database testing, ideal for teams seeking to implement automated testing with minimal programming effort. It ensures maintainability, scalability, and ease of use, catering to a diverse range of technical and non-technical users.
